release: v0.9.5 (#1276)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

You can also enable compression on subgraphs requests and responses by updating the `traffic_shaping` configuration:

```yaml
traffic_shaping:
  all:
    compression: br # Enable brotli compression for all subgraphs
  subgraphs:
    products:
      compression: gzip # Enable gzip compression only for subgraph products
```

By [@bnjjj](https://github.com/bnjjj) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1229

### Add support of multiple uplink URLs [PR #1210](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1210)
Add support of multiple uplink URLs with a comma-separated list in `APOLLO_UPLINK_ENDPOINTS` and for `--apollo-uplink-endpoints`

Example:
```bash
export APOLLO_UPLINK_ENDPOINTS="https://aws.uplink.api.apollographql.com/, https://uplink.api.apollographql.com/"
```

By [@bnjjj](https://github.com/bnjjj) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1210

### Add support for adding extra enviromental variables and volumes to helm chart [PR #1245](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1245)

> The following example will allow you to mount your supergraph.yaml into the helm deployment using a configmap with a key of supergraph.yaml. Using [Kustomize](https://kustomize.io/) to generate your configmap from your supergraph.yaml is suggested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example will allow you to mount your `supergraph.yaml` into the helm deployment using a [`ConfigMap`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) with a key of supergraph.yaml. Using [Kustomize](https://kustomize.io/) to generate your `ConfigMap` from your `supergraph.yaml` is suggested.
```

> The following example will allow you to mount your supergraph.yaml into the helm deployment using a configmap with a key of supergraph.yaml. Using [Kustomize](https://kustomize.io/) to generate your configmap from your supergraph.yaml is suggested.

Reviewer: I don't understand this:

> with a key of supergraph.yaml

Where is `supergraph.yaml` the key?

Reviewer 2: > I don't understand this:
> 
> > with a key of supergraph.yaml
> 
> Where is `supergraph.yaml` the key?

It's a reference to the content of a notional configMap called `some-configmap`, which contains the contents of your config, which will be mounted as a file in the container at `/etc/apollo/supergraph.yaml`.

Reviewer: That is exactly my perception of the behavior, but I still don't understand the "key" terminology here.  Could you help me with that?

Reviewer: Ah, I understand now with your edit and the example.  Do you think there's a treatment here we could do to make that more clear?

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:

+++START+++

The following example will allow you to mount your supergraph.yaml into the helm deployment using a configmap which contains an entry identifying the contents of supergraph.yaml. Using [Kustomize](https://kustomize.io/) to generate your configmap from your supergraph.yaml is suggested.

Example:
```yaml
extraEnvVars:
  - name: APOLLO_ROUTER_SUPERGRAPH_PATH
    value: /etc/apollo/supergraph.yaml
    # sets router log level to debug
  - name: APOLLO_ROUTER_LOG
    value: debug
extraEnvVarsCM: ''
extraEnvVarsSecret: ''

extraVolumes:
  - name: supergraph-volume
    configMap:
      name: some-configmap 
extraVolumeMounts: 
  - name: supergraph-volume
    mountPath: /etc/apollo
```
The some-configmap yaml would look something like:
```yaml
supergraph.yaml:
    server:
        listen: 0.0.0.0:80
```
+++END+++ #

Reviewer: I've made some edits to my suggestion above that might work for me.  I think that there's a larger conversation here that's out-of-scope for the `CHANGELOG.md`, perhaps. 😄 

Consider me satisfied either way!

Reviewer: The phrasing you offered also helps quite well!

Author: Tweaked, how does is look now?

Example:
```yaml
extraEnvVars:
  - name: APOLLO_ROUTER_SUPERGRAPH_PATH
    value: /etc/apollo/supergraph.yaml
    # sets router log level to debug
  - name: APOLLO_ROUTER_LOG
    value: debug
extraEnvVarsCM: ''
extraEnvVarsSecret: ''

extraVolumes:
  - name: supergraph-volume
    configMap:
      name: some-configmap 
extraVolumeMounts: 
  - name: supergraph-volume
    mountPath: /etc/apollo
```

By [@LockedThread](https://github.com/LockedThread) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1245

## 🐛 Fixes

### Support introspection object types ([PR #1240](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1240))
Introspection queries can use a set of object types defined in the specification. The query parsing code was not recognizing them,
resulting in some introspection queries not working.

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1240

### Update the scaffold template so that it works with streams ([#1247](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1247))

> Release v0.9.4 changed the way we deal with Response objects, which can now be streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release v0.9.4 changed the way we deal with `Response` objects, which can now be streams.
```

?

The scaffold template has been updated so that it generates plugins that are compatible with the new Plugin API.

By [@o0Ignition0o](https://github.com/o0Ignition0o) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1248

> ### Create the ExecutionResponse after the primary response was generated ([PR #1260](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1260))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create the `ExecutionResponse` after the primary response was generated ([PR #1260](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1260))
```

> The `@defer` preliminary work has a surprising side effect: when using methods like `RouterResponse::map_response`, they are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@defer` preliminary work had a surprising side effect: when using methods like `RouterResponse::map_response`, they were
```

> executed before the subgraph responses are received, because they work on the stream of responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
executed before the subgraph responses were received, because they work on the stream of responses.
```

> This PR goes back to the previous behaviour by awaiting the primary response before creating the ExecutionResponse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This PR goes back to the previous behaviour by awaiting the primary response before creating the `ExecutionResponse`.
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1260

### Use the API schema to generate selections ([PR #1255](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1255))
When parsing the schema to generate selections for response formatting, we should use the API schema instead of the supergraph schema.

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1255

## 📚 Documentation

### Update README link to the configuration file  ([PR #1208](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1208))
As the structure of the documentation has changed, the link should point to the `YAML config file` section of the overview.

By [@gscheibel](https://github.com/gscheibel in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1208

# [0.9.4] - 2022-06-14

## ❗ BREAKING ❗

### Groundwork for `@defer` support ([PR #1175](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1175)[PR #1206](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1206))

> To prepare for the implementation of the `@defer` directive, the `ExecutionResponse`  and `RouterResponse` types now carry a stream of responses instead of a unique response. For now that stream contains only one item, so there is no change in behaviour. However, the Plugin trait changed to accomodate this, so a couple of steps are required to migrate your plugin so that it is compatible with router v0.9.4:

Reviewer 2: Should the end of this paragraph be something like:
"... so that it is compatible with versions of the router >=0.9.4" ?

Author: Fixed in [3521214](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1276/commits/352121405002346caaf7944037440daccbd1ce0b)
